# 11.4 Representing a server response as a map

**페이지**: 258-260
**계층**: Data-Oriented Programming (node0) > Part2—Scalability (node1) > 11 Web services (node2) > Chapter 11
**추출 시간**: 2025-08-06 19:47:14

---


--- 페이지 258 ---

230 CHAPTER 11 Web services
var mandatoryIsbn10 = {
"type": "object",
"required": ["isbn_10"]
};
var bookInfoSchema = {
"allOf": [
basicBookInfoSchema,
{
"anyOf": [mandatoryIsbn13, mandatoryIsbn10]
}
]
};
Theo Now, assuming that I have a fetchResponseBody function that sends a request
and retrieves the body of the response as a string, let me code up the how to do
the retrieval. Give me a sec.
Theo types away in his IDE for several minutes. He shows the result to Joe.
Listing11.9 Retrieving book information from the Open Library Books API
var ajv = new Ajv({allErrors: true});
class OpenLibraryDataSource {
static rawBookInfo(isbn) {
var url = `https:/ /openlibrary.org/isbn/${isbn}.json`;
var jsonString = fetchResponseBody(url);
Fetches JSON in
return JSON.parse(jsonString);
the body of a
}
response
static bookInfo(isbn, requestedFields) {
var relevantFields = ["title", "full_title",
"subtitle", "publisher",
"publish_date", "weight",
"physical_dimensions", "genre",
"subjects", "number_of_pages"];
var rawInfo = rawBookInfo(isbn);
if(!ajv.validate(bookInfoSchema, rawInfo)) {
var errors = ajv.errorsText(ajv.errors);
throw "Internal error: Unexpected result from Open Books API: " +
errors;
}
var relevantInfo =
_.pick(_.pick(rawInfo, relevantFields), requestedFields);
return _.set(relevantInfo, "isbn", isbn);
}
}
 NOTE The JavaScript snippets of this chapter are written as if JavaScript were deal-
ing with I/O in a synchronous way. In real life, we need to use async and await around
I/O calls.

--- 페이지 258 끝 ---


--- 페이지 259 ---

11.5 Passing information forward 231
Joe Looks good! But why did you add the isbn field to the map returned by
bookInfo?
Theo It will allow me to combine information from two sources about the same book.
Joe I like it!
11.5 Passing information forward
Joe If I understand it correctly, the program needs to combine two kinds of data:
basic book information from the database and extended book information
from the Open Library API. How are you going to combine them into a single
piece of data in the response to the client?
Theo In traditional OOP, I would create a specific class for each type of book
information.
Joe What to you mean?
Theo You know, I’d have classes like DBBook, OpenLibraryBook, and CombinedBook.
Joe Hmm...
Theo But that won’t work because we decided to go with a dynamic approach, where
the client decides what fields should appear in the response.
Joe True, and classes don’t bring any added value because we need to pass data for-
ward. Do you know the story of the guy who asked his friend to bring flowers to
his fiancée?
Theo No.
Joe takes a solemn position as if to speak before a gathering of peers. With a deep breath,
he tells Theo the following story. Entranced, Theo listens carefully.
The story of the guy who asked his friend to bring flowers to his fiancée
A few weeks before their wedding, Hugo wanted to send flowers to Iris, his fiancée,
who was on vacation with her family in a neighboring town. Unable to travel because
he’s needed at work to fix a critical error in a security app, Hugo asks his friend Willy
to make the trip and to take the bouquet of flowers to his beloved, accompanied by
an envelope containing a love letter that Hugo had written for his fiancée. Willy, hav-
ing to make the trip anyway, kindly accepts.
Before giving the flowers to Iris, Willy phoned his friend Hugo to let him know that he
was about to complete his mission. Hugo’s joy was beyond belief until Willy told Hugo
how much he admired the quality of his writing style.
Hugo was disappointed. “What! Did you read the letter I wrote to my fiancée?”
“Of course!” answered Willy. “It was necessary to do so in order to fulfill my duty
faithfully.”
Theo That doesn’t make any sense! Why would Willy have to read the letter in order
to fulfill his duty?

--- 페이지 259 끝 ---


--- 페이지 260 ---

232 CHAPTER 11 Web services
Joe That’s exactly the point of the story! In a sense, traditional OOP is like Hugo’s
friend, Willy. In order to pass information forward, OOP developers think they
need to “open the letter” and represent information with specific classes.
Theo Oh, I see. And DOP developers emulate the spirit of what Hugo expected from
a delivery person; they just pass information forward as generic data structures.
Joe Exactly.
Theo That’s a subtle but funny analogy.
Joe Let’s get back to the question of combining data from the database with data
from the Books API. There are two ways to do this—nesting and merging.
Joe goes to the whiteboard. He finds an area to draw table 11.1 for Theo.
Table 11.1 Two ways to combine hash maps
Advantages Disadvantages
Nesting No need to handle conflicts. Result is not flat.
Merging Result is flat. Need to handle conflicts.
Theo How does nesting work?
Joe In nesting, we add a field named extendedInfo to the information fetched
from the Open Library API.
Theo I see. And what about merging?
Joe In merging, we combine the fields of both maps into a single map.
Theo If there are fields with the same name in both maps, what then?
Joe Then you have a merge conflict, and you need to decide how to handle the
conflict. That’s the drawback of merging.
 NOTE When merging maps, we need to think about the occurrences of conflicting
fields.
Theo Hopefully, in the context of extended search results, the maps don’t have any
fields in common.
Joe Then let’s merge them!
Theo Would I need to write custom code for merging two maps?
Joe No! As you might remember from one of our previous sessions, Lodash pro-
vides a handy _.merge function.
 NOTE _.merge was introduced in chapter 5.
Theo Could you refresh my memory?
Joe Sure. Show me an example of maps with data from the database and data from
the Open Library Books API, and I’ll show you how to merge them.
Theo From the database, we get only two fields: isbn and available. From the
Open Library API, we get six fields. Here’s what they look like.

--- 페이지 260 끝 ---
