# 7.1 Data validation in DOP

**페이지**: 172-174
**계층**: Data-Oriented Programming (node0) > Part2—Scalability (node1) > 7 Basic data validation (node2) > Chapter 7
**추출 시간**: 2025-08-06 19:47:00

---


--- 페이지 172 ---

144 CHAPTER 7 Basic data validation
Theo Basically, a search request is made of a string and the fields you’d like to
retrieve for the books whose title contains the string. So the request has two
fields: title, which is a string, and fields, which is an array of strings.
Theo quickly writes on the whiteboard. When he finishes, he steps aside to let Joe view his
code for a search request.
Listing7.1 An example of a search request
{
"title": "habit",
"fields": ["title", "weight", "number_of_pages"]
}
Joe I see. Let me show you how to express the schema of a search request sepa-
rately from the representation of the search request data.
Theo What do you mean exactly by “separately?”
Joe Data representation stands on its own, and the data schema stands on its own.
You are free to validate that a piece of data conforms with a data schema as you
will and when you will.
TIP In DOP, the data schema is separate from the data representation.
Theo It’s a bit abstract for me.
Joe I know. It will become much clearer in a moment. For now, I am going to show
you how to build the data schema for the search request in a schema language
called JSON Schema.
Theo I love JSON!
 NOTE Information on the JSON Schema language can be found at https://json
-schema.org. The schemas in this book use JSON Schema version 2020-12.
Joe First, we have to express the data type of the request. What’s the data type in
the case of a book search request?
Theo It’s a map.
Joe In JSON Schema, the data type for maps is called object. Look at this basic
skeleton of a map. It’s a map with two fields: type and properties.
Joe goes to the whiteboard. He quickly writes the code for the map with its two fields.
Listing7.2 Basic schema skeleton of a map
{
"type": "object",
"properties": {...}
}

--- 페이지 172 끝 ---


--- 페이지 173 ---

7.2 JSON Schema in a nutshell 145
Joe The value of type is "object", and the value of properties is a map with the
schema for the map fields.
Theo I assume that, inside properties, we are going to express the schema of the map
fields as JSON Schema.
Joe Correct.
Theo I am starting to feel the dizziness of recursion.
Joe In JSON Schema, a schema is usually a JSON object with a field called type,
which specifies the data type. For example, the type for the title field is
string and...
Theo ...the type for the fields field is array.
Joe Yes!
Now it’s Theo’s turn to go to the whiteboard. He fills the holes in the search request
schema with the information about the fields.
Listing7.3 Schema skeleton for search request
{
"type": "object",
"properties": {
"title": {"type": "string"},
"fields": {"type": "array"}
}
}
On Theo’s way back from the whiteboard to his desk, Joe makes a sign with his right hand
that says, “Stay near the whiteboard, please.” Theo turns and goes back to the whiteboard.
Joe We can be a little more precise about the fields property by providing infor-
mation about the type of the elements in the array. In JSON Schema, an array
schema has a property called items, whose value is the schema for the array
elements.
Without any hesitation, Theo adds this information on the whiteboard. Stepping aside, he
shows Joe the result.
Listing7.4 Schema for search request with information about array elements
{
"type": "object",
"properties": {
"title": {"type": "string"},
"fields": {
"type": "array",
"items": {"type": "string"}
}
}
}

--- 페이지 173 끝 ---


--- 페이지 174 ---

146 CHAPTER 7 Basic data validation
Before going back to his desk, Theo asks Joe:
Theo Are we done now?
Joe Not yet. We can be more precise about the fields field in the search request.
I assume that the fields in the request should be part of a closed list of fields.
Therefore, instead of allowing any string, we could have a list of allowed values.
Theo Like an enumeration value?
Joe Exactly! In fact, JSON Schema supports enumeration values with the enum key-
word. Instead of {"type": "string"}, you need to have {"enum": […]} and
replace the dots with the supported fields.
Once again, Theo turns to the whiteboard. He replaces the dots with the information Joe
requests.
Listing7.5 Schema for the search request with enumeration values
{
"type": "object",
"properties": {
"title": {"type": "string"},
"fields": {
"type": "array",
"items": {
"enum": [
"publishers",
"number_of_pages",
"weight",
"physical_format",
"subjects",
"publish_date",
"physical_dimensions"
]
}
}
}
}
Theo Are we done, now?
Joe Almost. We need to decide whether the fields of our search request are optional
or required. In our case, both title and fields are required.
Theo How do we express this information in JSON Schema?
Joe There is a field called required whose value is an array made of the names of
the required fields in the map.
After adding the required field, Theo looks at Joe. This time he makes a move with his
right hand that says, “Now you can go back to your desk.”
Listing7.6 Schema of a search request
var searchBooksRequestSchema = {
"type": "object",

--- 페이지 174 끝 ---
