# 11.6 Search result enrichment in action

**페이지**: 263-265
**계층**: Data-Oriented Programming (node0) > Part2—Scalability (node1) > 11 Web services (node2) > Chapter 11
**추출 시간**: 2025-08-06 19:47:15

---


--- 페이지 263 ---

11.6 Search result enrichment in action 235
"type": "object",
"required": ["isbn", "available"],
"properties": {
"isbn": {"type": "string"},
"available": {"type": "boolean"}
}
}
};
class CatalogDB {
static matchingBooks(title) {
var matchingBooksQuery = `
SELECT isbn, available
FROM books
WHERE title = like '%$1%';
`;
var books = dbClient.query(catalogDB, matchingBooksQuery, [title]);
if(!ajv.validate(dbSearchResultSchema, books)) {
var errors = ajv.errorsText(ajv.errors);
throw "Internal error: Unexpected result from the database: " +
errors;
}
return books;
}
}
Joe So far, so good...
Theo Next, I’ll go with the implementation of the retrieval of book information from
Open Library for several books. Unfortunately, the Open Library Books API
doesn’t support querying several books at once. I’ll need to send one request
per book.
Joe That’s a bit annoying. Let’s make our life easier and pretend that _.map works
with asynchronous functions. In real life, you’d need something like Promise
.all in order to send the requests in parallel and combine the responses.
Theo OK, then it’s quite straightforward. I’ll take the book retrieval code and add a
multipleBookInfo function that maps over bookInfo.
Theo looks over the book retrieval code in listing 11.9 and then concentrates as he types
into his IDE. When he’s done, he shows the result in listing 11.15 to Joe.
Listing11.15 Retrieving book information from Open Library for several books
class OpenLibraryDataSource {
static rawBookInfo(isbn) {
var url = `https:/ /openlibrary.org/isbn/${isbn}.json`;
var jsonString = fetchResponseBody(url);
return JSON.parse(jsonString);
}
static bookInfo(isbn, requestedFields) {
var relevantFields = ["title", "full_title",
"subtitle", "publisher",
"publish_date", "weight",

--- 페이지 263 끝 ---


--- 페이지 264 ---

236 CHAPTER 11 Web services
"physical_dimensions", "genre",
"subjects", "number_of_pages"];
var rawInfo = rawBookInfo(isbn);
if(!ajv.validate(dbSearchResultSchema, bookInfoSchema)) {
var errors = ajv.errorsText(ajv.errors);
throw "Internal error: Unexpected result from Open Books API: " +
errors;
}
var relevantInfo =
_.pick(_.pick(rawInfo, relevantFields), requestedFields);
return _.set(relevantInfo, "isbn", isbn);
}
static multipleBookInfo(isbns, fields) {
return _.map(function(isbn) {
return bookInfo(isbn, fields);
}, isbns);
}
}
Joe Nice! Now comes the fun part: combining information from several data sources.
Theo Yeah. I have two arrays in my hands: one with book information from the data-
base and one with book information from Open Library. I somehow need to
join the arrays, but I’m not sure I can assume that the positions of the book
information are the same in both arrays.
Joe What would you like to have in your hands?
Theo I wish I had two hash maps.
Joe And what would the keys in the hash maps be?
Theo Book ISBNs.
Joe Well, I have good news for you: your wish is granted!
Theo How?
Joe Lodash provides a function named _.keyBy that transforms an array into a map.
Theo I can’t believe it. Can you show me an example?
Joe Sure. Let’s call _.keyBy on an array with two books.
Listing11.16 Transforming an array into a map with _.keyBy
var books = [
{
"title": "7 Habits of Highly Effective People",
"isbn": "978-1982137274",
"available": true
},
{
"title": "The Power of Habit",
"isbn": "978-0812981605",
"available": false
}
];
_.keyBy(books, "isbn");

--- 페이지 264 끝 ---


--- 페이지 265 ---

11.6 Search result enrichment in action 237
Joe And here’s the result.
Listing11.17 The result of keyBy
{
"978-0812981605": {
"available": false,
"isbn": "978-0812981605",
"title": "The Power of Habit"
},
"978-1982137274": {
"available": true,
"isbn": "978-1982137274",
"title": "7 Habits of Highly Effective People"
}
}
Theo keyBy is awesome!
Joe Don’t exaggerate, my friend; _.keyBy is quite similar to _.groupBy. The
only difference is that _.keyBy assumes that there’s only one element in
each group.
Theo I think that, with _.keyBy, I’ll be able to write a generic joinArrays function.
Joe I’m glad to see you thinking in terms of implementing business logic through
generic data manipulation functions.
TIP Many parts of the business logic can be implemented through generic data
manipulation functions.
Theo The joinArrays function needs to receive the arrays and the field name for
which we decide the two elements that need to be combined, for instance,
isbn.
Joe Remember, in general, it’s not necessarily the same field name for both arrays.
Theo Right, so joinArrays needs to receive four arguments: two arrays and two
field names.
Joe Go for it! And, please, write a unit test for joinArrays.
Theo Of course...
Theo works for a while and produces the code in listing 11.18. He then types the unit test
in listing 11.19.
Listing11.18 A generic function for joining arrays
function joinArrays(a, b, keyA, keyB) {
var mapA = _.keyBy(a, keyA);
var mapB = _.keyBy(b, keyB);
var mapsMerged = _.merge(mapA, mapB);
return _.values(mapsMerged);
}

--- 페이지 265 끝 ---
