# 6.2.3 Unit tests for nodes in the tree

## 추출된 내용

6.2.3 Unit tests for nodes in the tree
Theo I’m curious to see what unit tests for an upper node in the tree of function calls
look like.
Joe Sure. Let’s write a unit test for Catalog.bookInfo. How many test cases would
you have for Catalog.bookInfo?
Listing6.10 The code of Catalog.bookInfo
Catalog.bookInfo = function (catalogData, book) {
return {
"title": _.get(book, "title"),
"isbn": _.get(book, "isbn"),
"authorNames": Catalog.authorNames(catalogData,
_.get(book, "authorIds"))
Theo takes another look at the code for Catalog.bookInfo on his laptop. Then, reaching
for another napkin, he draws a diagram of its input and output (see figure 6.3).
catalogData book
Catalog.bookInfo()
Figure 6.3 Visualization of the input
bookInfo and output of Catalog.bookInfo
Theo I would have a similar number of test cases for Catalog.authorNames: a book
with a single author, with two authors, with existing authors, with non-existent
authors, with...
Joe Whoa! That’s not necessary. Given that we have already written unit tests for
Catalog.authorNames, we don’t need to check all the cases again. We simply
need to write a minimal test case to confirm that the code works.
TIP When we write a unit test for a function, we assume that the functions called by
this function are covered by unit tests and work as expected. It significantly reduces
the quantity of test cases in our unit tests.
Theo That makes sense.
Joe How would you write a minimal test case for Catalog.bookInfo?
Theo once again takes a look at the code for Catalog.bookInfo (see listing 6.10). Now he
can answer Joe’s question.

---

**추출 완료**: 1591 문자
**추출 시간**: 2025-08-06T17:17:27.594236
**파일 경로**: 6.2.3 Unit tests for nodes in the tree [CONTENT].md
