# 7.1 Data validation in DOP

Theo has rescheduled his meetings. With such an imposing deadline, he's still not sure if he's made a big mistake giving DOP a second chance.

 NOTE The reason why Theo rescheduled his meetings is explained in the opener for part 2. Take a moment to read the opener if you missed it.

Joe What aspect of OOP do you think you will miss the most in your big project?

Theo Data validation.

Joe Can you elaborate a bit?

Theo In OOP, I have this strong guarantee that when a class is instantiated, its member fields have the proper names and proper types. But with DOP, it's so easy to have small mistakes in field names and field types.

Joe Well, I have good news for you! There is a way to validate data in DOP.

Theo How does it work? I thought DOP and data validation were two contradictory concepts!

Joe Not at all. It's true that DOP doesn't force you to validate data, but it doesn't prevent you from doing so. In DOP, the data schema is separate from the data representation.

Theo I don't get how that would eliminate data consistency issues.

Joe According to DOP, the most important data to validate is data that crosses the boundaries of the system.

Theo Which boundaries are you referring to?

Joe In the case of a web server, it would be the areas where the web server communicates with its clients and with its data sources.

Theo A diagram might help me see it better.

Joe goes to the whiteboard and picks up the pen. He then draws a diagram like the one in figure 7.1.

Client (e.g., web browser)
Data
Web server
Data Data
Web service Database Figure 7.1 High-level architecture of a modern web server

Joe This architectural diagram defines what we call the boundaries of the system in terms of data exchange. Can you tell me what the three boundaries of the system are?

 NOTE The boundaries of a system are defined as the areas where the system exchanges data.

Theo Let me see. The first one is the client boundary, then we have the database boundary, and finally, the web service boundary.

Joe Exactly! It's important to identify the boundaries of a system because, in DOP, we differentiate between two kinds of data validation: validation that occurs at the boundaries of the system and validation that occurs inside the system. Today, we're going to focus on validation that occurs at the boundaries of the system.

Theo Does that mean data validation at the boundaries of the system is more important?

Joe Absolutely! Once you've ensured that data going into and out of the system is valid, the odds for an unexpected piece of data inside the system are pretty low.

TIP When data at system boundaries is validated, it's not critical to validate data again inside the system.

Theo Why do we need data validation inside the system then?

Joe It has to do with making it easier to code your system as your code base grows.

Theo And, what's the main purpose of data validation at the boundaries?

Joe To prevent invalid data from going in and out of the system, and to display informative errors when we encounter invalid data. Let me draw a table on the whiteboard so you can see the distinction (table 7.1).

Table 7.1 Two kinds of data validation
Kind of data validation Purpose Environment
Boundaries Guardian Production
Inside Ease of development Dev

Theo When will you teach me about data validation inside the system?

Joe Later, when the code base is bigger.