# C.1.1 1958: Lisp

**메타데이터:**
- ID: 198
- 레벨: 2
- 페이지: 409-409
- 페이지 수: 1
- 부모 ID: 196
- 텍스트 길이: 1513 문자

---

With Lisp, John McCarthy had the ingenious idea to represent data as generic
immutable lists and to invent a language that made it natural to create lists and to
access any part of a list. That’s the reason why Lisp stands for LISt Processing.
In a way, Lisp lists are the ancestors of JavaScript object literals. The idea that it
makes sense to represent data with generic data structures (DOP Principle #2) defi-
nitely comes from Lisp.
The main limitation of Lisp lists is that when we update a list, we need to create
a new version by cloning it. This has a negative impact on performance both in
terms of CPU and memory.
381

382 APPENDIX C Data-oriented programming: A link in the chain of programming paradigms
LISP
John McCarthy invents a
1958
language designed for
processing immutable lists.
Values and Objects
In his beautiful paper“Values and Objects
1981 in Programming Languages,”Bruce
MacLennan clarifies the distinction between
values (immutable) and objects (stateful).
Ideal Hash Trees
Phil Bagwell invents a data
2000
structure with nearly ideal
characteristics.
Out of the Tar Pit
Ben Moseley and Peter Marks define
complexity as“what makes a system
2006
hard to understand”and suggest
various ways to reduce complexity in
Clojure software systems.
Rich Hickey invents a
language designed for reducing
2007
complexity of information
systems with immutability
at its core.
Immutability for all
Persistent data structures
2009
are ported from Clojure to
other languages.
Figure C.1 DOP time line